The early modern medium of the erasable notebook – and the economy of erasure and reinscription that surrounds it – finds a ready counterpart in the more contemporary forms of artificial memory that inform the composition of *Nets*. Wendy Chun makes this connection in her influential study of digital memory as an “enduring ephemeral”:

> If computer memory is like anything, it is like erasable writing; but, if a penciled word can be erased because graphite is soft, a computer’s memory can be rewritten because its surface constantly fades. (160-1)

What makes new media *new*, Chun goes on to argue, is less their superhuman speed or power than their reliance upon physical media – cathode tubes, mercury lines, and even flash storage – that constantly erase and rewrite the information they promise to retain. If digital media seem both less solid and more durable than analog media (a paradox embodied by the figure of the cloud – at once ephemeral and transcendent), that is because they elide the cycles of decay and renewal, the constant flicker of electrical charges, that make digital information both highly volatile and seemingly inert. The fantasy of digital memory as an impregnable archive follows from a conflation of regenerative memory with static memory, or, more simply, of memory with storage:

> Crucially, memory is an active process, not static. A memory must be held in order to keep it from moving or fading. Memory does not equal storage. While memory looks backward, according to the [OED]{.smallcaps}, to store is to furnish, to build stock. (164)
<!---TODO: Add a couple concluding sentences on Chun.-->

In this sense, artificial memory (and especially digital memory) is also melancholic: it preserves an object by means of its continual erasure. Tung-Hui Hu explores the connection between melancholy and digital memory in an essay on data bunkers (which pre-empt the threat of cyberattacks or obsolete media by obsessing guarding their object, which is already subject to decay):

> Melancholy, in short, is something of a preservative. A crypt is created within the psyche that conceals a trace of the lost object, a libidinal space that simultaneously sets the object apart – marks it as belonging to the realm of the dead or gone – but also keeps a version of it alive. Lodged like a parasite inside the subject, the phantom remains inaccessible and encoded as it waits for its eventual reincarnation (or, at least, its decryption). (108)

Hu describes digital media as a thanatopoetics that promises to safeguard our data against external threats even as it confronts us with dead media – dead harddrives, dead hyperlinks, and fatal errors – that mark the ground where our seemingly immortal data, if not precisely lost, has become forever irretrievable. If the wispy metaphor of the cloud promises to make information transcendent, it also conceals the server farms and concrete bunkers (often repurposed fallout shelters) that seek to preserve our data indefinitely by rehearsing the inevitability of its loss: built to withstand physical damage from without, these silos fail to forestall the inevitable decay of magnetic drives that store our data and the inevitable obsolesce of the formats that encode it. No longer a shelter, the bunker becomes a tomb.